Updating firewall configuration for Docker servers (#287)
open-contracting/deploy: docs/develop/update/firewall.rst

Configure firewall
==================

> .. note:::
> 
>    The below firewall configuration doesn't work with Docker. :ref:`See below for alternative solutions<Docker Servers>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When not using Docker
---------------------
```

   .. code-block:: bash

      netstat -tupln

> Docker Servers
> ==============

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using Docker
-----------------
```

> Docker manipulates IPTables to route network traffic to and from containers this interferes with our firewall management script. To prevent errors saltstack and the firewall script identify docker and block the script from running. To work around this on servers hosting Docker we need to implement an alternative firewall solution that is configured external to the instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `firewall.sh` script rewrites all iptables rules. However, Docker needs to add rules to route traffic to and from containers. To address this incompatibility, the `firewall.sh` script exits if the `docker` command exists. To implement firewall rules on Docker servers, we implement an external firewall.
```

> Hetzner (Hardware Servers)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hetzner (hardware servers)
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Hetzner provide a simple stateless firewall with each server. "Stateless" means that the firewall does not track connections, it simply monitors all inbound and outbound traffic by IP and ports in that moment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hetzner provide a free `stateless firewall <https://docs.hetzner.com/robot/dedicated-server/firewall/>`__ for each dedicated server. "Stateless" means that the firewall does not store information about connections across time, which is required for use cases like port knocking.
```

Author: The "stateless" firewall caught us out on Registry because it was blocking the response from outbound requests, for instance running `curl` to get a web page. 
I'm not sure how to phrase it but I think this would be a better example than port knocking because users are much more likely to run into this. (or perhaps to add as well as port knocking)

Reviewer: Maybe "which is required for HTTP sessions and port knocking, for example."

> You can configure the Hetzner firewall as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure a Hetzner firewall as follows:
```

#. `Log into Hetzner <https://robot.your-server.de/server>`__
#. Select your server and go to the *Firewall* tab
#. Set *Status* to active
#. Enable *Hetzner Services*

> #. Create your firewall rules
> 
>    We recommend the following rules as a minimum

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Create your firewall rules. The recommended minimum is:
```

   .. list-table::
       :header-rows: 1

       * - Name
         - Source IP
         - Destination IP
         - Source port
         - Destination port
         - Protocol
         - TCP flags
         - Action
       * - Allow SSH
         - 0.0.0.0/0
         - 0.0.0.0/0
         - 0-65535
         - 22
         - *
         -
         - Accept
       * - Allow ICMP
         - 0.0.0.0/0
         - 0.0.0.0/0
         - 0-65535
         - 0-65535
         - icmp
         -
         - Accept
       * - Allow Prometheus
         - 213.138.113.219/32
         - 0.0.0.0/0
         - 0-65535
         - 7231
         - *
         -
         - Accept
       * - Allow Outgoing TCP
         - 0.0.0.0/0
         - 0.0.0.0/0
         - 0-65535
         - 32768-65535
         - tcp
         - ack
         - Accept

> .. Note:::
> 
>    `More information can be found in the Hetzner documentation.<https://docs.hetzner.com/robot/dedicated-server/firewall/>`__
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Linode (VPS Servers)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Linode (VPS servers)
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Linode provide a stateful Cloud Firewall. Stateful firewalls track connections for you making configuration easier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Linode provide a stateful `Cloud Firewall <https://www.linode.com/docs/guides/getting-started-with-cloud-firewall/>`__. Stateful firewalls can store information about connections across time, which is required for use cases like port knocking.
```

Author: Thinking of rephrasing to "store information abut connections over time" as this is the more common phrasing.

Happy with "across time" too if it was chosen for a specific reason?

Reviewer: "over" is also fine with me.

You can configure a Linode Cloud Firewall as follows:

#. `Log into Linode <https://login.linode.com/>`__

> #. Open the `*Firewalls* listing page<https://cloud.linode.com/firewalls>`__

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Open the `*Firewalls* listing page <https://cloud.linode.com/firewalls>`__
```

#. Click *Create Firewall*

   #. Set *Label* to the server name
   #. Assign your Linode instance

> #. Select your new Firewall

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Select your new firewall
```

#. Set *Default inbound policy* to *Drop*

> #. Add an Inbound Rule
> 
>    We recommend the following rules as a minimum

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Add an inbound rule. The recommended minimum is:
```

   .. list-table::
       :header-rows: 1

       * - Label
         - Protocol
         - Ports
         - Sources
         - Action
       * - Allow-SSH
         - TCP
         - SSH (22)
         - All IPv4, All IPv6
         - Accept
       * - Allow-ICMP
         - ICMP
         -
         - All IPv4, All IPv6
         - Accept

#. Click *Save Changes*

> .. Node:::
> 
>    `More information can be found in the Linode documentation.<https://www.linode.com/docs/guides/getting-started-with-cloud-firewall/>`__

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
